"Rich countries often give money to poorer countries, but it does not solve poverty. Therefore, developed countries should give other types of help to the poor countries rather than financial aid. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
"Some countries achieve international sports by building specialised facilities to train top athletes, instead of providing sports facilities that everyone can use. Do you think this is positive or negative development?Discuss both views and give your opinion."
"Nowadays, not enough students choose science subjects in university in many countries. What are the reasons for this problem? What are the effects on society?"
The best way to teach children to cooperate is through team sports at school. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"While many people go to university for academic study, more people should be encouraged to do vocational training because there is a lack of qualified workers such as electricians and plumbers. Do you agree or disagree?"
"Some people think that governments should ban dangerous sports, while others think people should have freedom to do any sports or activity. Discuss both views and give your own opinion"
"Some experts believe that when a country is already rich, any additional increase in economic wealth does not make its citizens any more satisfied. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
Write about the following topic.An increasing number of people are choosing to have cosmetic surgery in order to improve their appearance. Why are more people choosing to have operation to change the way they look? Do you think this a positive or negative development?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Some people say free time activities for children should be organized by parents. Others say that children should be free to choose what they do in their free time. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
In some countries young people are encouraged to work or travel for a year between finishing high school and starting university studies. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages for young people who decide to do this .
The advantages of the spread of English as a global language will continue to outweigh its disadvantages. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"Write about the following topic.To meet the growing need for food to support an increasing population, a country should make use of edible insects as a food source. However, some people believe that insects are not only unhealthy but harvesting them will also negatively affect nature. What are the benefits and drawbacks of eating insects?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.With the improvements in today’s health care, society has to care for more and more elderly people.Do you feel that society will be able to cope with the increase in numbers of elderly people today and how can it be managed?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.Some people believe that school children should not be given homework by their teachers, whereas others argue that homework plays an important role in the education of children.Discuss both of these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.Many governments think that economic progress is their most important goal. Some people,however, think that other types of progress are equally important for a country.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some people think living in big cities is bad for people’s health.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.Although there are a lot of translation software available, learning a language could still be advantageous. To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.Some people prefer to spend their lives doing the same things and avoiding change. Others, however, think that change is always a good thing.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.Some people think that we should divide students based on their academic ability, while others think we should educate all students together. Discuss both views and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some people believe that teaching children at home is best for a child's development while others think that it is important for children to go to school.Discuss the advantages of both methods and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.The issue of gay marriage remains controversial. Some people think that this trend has adverse effects on the society while others believe that it is seen as a natural trend and right for people to choose this type of marriage. Should gay marriage be legal?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Some people think that government is responsible for the rise in obesity in children.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.In some parts of the world people try to find out one's own family history. Why do people do this? Do you think it is a positive or negative?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.There are several factors that motivate people to stay in the workforce, and money is the most important reason/factor. To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some people feel that manufacturers and supermarkets have the responsibility to reduce the amount of packaging of goods. Others argue that customers should avoid buying goods with a lot of packaging. Discuss both views and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Reporting of crimes and other kinds of violent news on television and in newspapers can have adverse consquences. This kind of information should be restricted from being shown in the media. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Write about the following topic.Some people believe that one of the best ways to solve environmental problem is to increase the cost of fuel for cars and other vehicles. To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.The most important function of music is that it helps people reduce stress. To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Many people use written language in a less formal and more relaxed way. Why? Does this development have advantages and disadvantages?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.In many countries large amounts of foods are wasted. Why do you think people waste food in this way? What can be done to reduce the amount of food thrown away?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Some people believe women are better leaders than men. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Many people think modern communication technology is having some negative effects on social relationships. Do you agree or disagree?
"Some people think history has nothing or little to tell us, but others think that studying the past history can help us better understand the present. Discuss both views and give your opinion."
Write about the following topic:Some people believe that it is important to spend a lot of money on family celebrations. While others think it is a waste of money. Discuss both views.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic:In many countries, not enough students study science subjects. What are the causes? What will be the effect on society?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
In many countries people increasingly talk about money (how much they earn or how much they pay for things in their daily conversations). Why? Is this a positive or negative development?
Some people believe that governments should pay full course fees for students who want to study in universities. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
"Write about the following topic:Some people think that hosting an international sports event is good for the country, while some people think it is bad. Discuss both views and state your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Some people think students should study the science of food and how to prepare it. Others think that school time should be used in learning important subjects. Discuss both views and give your opinion?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Computers are now the basis of the modern world. They should therefore be introduced into classrooms, and their programs used for direct teaching purposes. However, dependence on computers in teaching may carry a certain degree of risk to students.Discuss both sides and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"The dangers of smoking are well known, yet many people continue with this habit.What are the causes of this? How can we reduce smoking in society?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Bullying is a big problem in many schools.What do you think are the causes of this? What solutions can you suggest?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Few people devote time to hobbies nowadays. Say why you think this is the case and what effect this has on the individual and society in general.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.Some people believe that it is good to share as much information as possible in scientific research, business and the academic world. Others believe that some information is too important or too valuable to be shared freely.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Consumers are faced with increasing numbers of advertisements from competing companies. To what extent do you think consumers are influenced by advertisements? What measures can be taken to protect them?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Cohabitation is believed to bring huge advantages for young people since it enables them to fully understand each other before deciding to get married.Do you agree or disagree with this opinion?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Many parents today organise extra classes for their children after school and at the weekends.Do you feel that this is a worthwhile thing to do or do you feel children have enough education at school?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.Some people think that it is more beneficial to take part in sports which are played in teams, like football. But others think taking part in individual sports is better, like swimming. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some teachers think that international student exchange would be beneficial for all teenage school students.Do you think its advantages will outweigh the disadvantages?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Some people think that hosting international sports events may be beneficial for a country. Discuss both views.
"Write about the following topic.Nowadays, sports is a big business with high earnings for professional sports people and companies involved both financially and other ways. Is this a positive or negative development for sports?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Group or team activities can teach more important skills for life than those activities which are done alone.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Today family members do not eat meals together. Why does this happen? Is this a positive or negative developmentGive reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Some people think that physical strength is important for success in sport, while other people think that mental strength is more important. Discuss both views and give your own opinion."
The use of social media is replacing face-to-face interaction among many people in society. Do you think the advantages outweigh the disadvantages?
People are having more and more sugar-based drinks. What are the reasons? What are the solutions to make people drink less.
Individuals can do nothing to improve the environment; only governments and large companies can make a difference. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"People often think about creating an ideal society, but most of the times fail in making this happen.What is your opinion about an ideal societyHow can we create an ideal society?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Some systems require students to specialize in a limited range of subjects from the age of fifteen. Other systems require students to study a wide range of subjects until they leave school. What are the benefits of these two education systems and which is better?
The typical teaching situation of a teacher and students in the class will not exist by the year 2050. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some cities create housing areas by providing taller buildings. Others create housing by building houses on a wider area of land. What solution is better?
"In many countries women and men are working full time. It is therefore, logical for women and men to share household works. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
In some countries people spend long hours at work. Why does this happen? Is it positive or negative development
Some people think the money spent in developing the technology for space exploration is not justified. There are more beneficial ways to spend this money. To what extend do you agree or disagree?
Nowadays people waste a lot of food that was bought from shops and restaurants. Why do you think people waste food? What can be done to reduce the amount of food they throw away?
People think that the best way to reduce crime is to give longer prison sentences. Others believe that there are other alternative solutions for reducing crime.Discuss both views and give your opinion on this topic.
"In many workplaces, online communication is getting more common than meeting face to face. Do the advantages of this development outweigh the disadvantages?"
Some educationalists say that every child should be taught how to play a musical instrument. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"Some people say that the experiences a child has before starting school have the most influence on their future life. Others say that experiences as a teenager, especially at school, are more influential. Discuss both views and give your own opinion?"
It is suggested that primary children should learn how to grow vegetables and keep animals. Do the advantages outweigh the disadvantages?
Some people think that outdoor activities are more beneficial for children’s development than playing computer games. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"Society is based on rules and laws. If individuals were free to do whatever they want to do, it could not function. To what extent do you agree or disagree with the above statement?"
"Some people say that modern technology has made shopping today easier, while others disagree. Discuss both views and give your opinion"
"In some countries, only few young people go to classical music concerts or or play classical music. Why? Should young people be encouraged to attend and learn more?"
"Many people now undertake extreme activities, from hang-gliding to mountain climbing.Why do people risk their lives in this way, and do you think this is a good trend?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Missions to explore space are hugely expensive, and there are problems on Earth which demand attention. The number of these missions needs to be reduced.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"The use of corporal punishment (physically hitting students) in schools is in decline, yet it should be used to improve behaviour.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"The Internet is now used all around the world as a source of information and communication. However, it's often controversial, so many people think it needs to be controlled. Others believe there should be no interference whatsoever.Discuss both points of view, and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"The movement of people from the countryside into the cities is happening in many parts of the world, resulting in the problems, especially in cities.What are the causes of this movement, and how can it be reversedGive reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Many people today, especially in the developed world, are choosing to have fewer children, or none at all.Why is this happening, and do you think it is a good trend?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Boxing is a blood sport which often results in physical injury. It is inappropriate for this sport to exist in the modern age.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer, and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Competitiveness is a positive quality for people in most societies. How does competitiveness affect individuals? Is it a positive or negative trend?
"Traffic and housing problems could be solved by moving large companies, factories and their employees to the countryside.Do you agree or disagree?"
"Some people think that it is more beneficial to take part in sports which are played in teams, like football, while other people think that taking part in individual sports, like tennis or swimming, is better. Discuss both views and give your own opinion."
Some people believe that giving longer prison sentences is the best way to reduce crime. Others believe that there are better ways to reduce crime. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
"Today, the high sales of popular consumer goods reflect the power of advertising and not the real needs of the society in which they are sold. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
The tendency of news reports in the media to focus more on problems and emergencies rather than on positive developments is harmful to the individuals and the society as a whole.To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Present a written argument or case to an educated non-specialist audience on the following topic:Under British and Australian laws a jury in a criminal case has no access to information about the defendant's past criminal record. This protects the person who is being accused of the crime.Some lawyers have suggested that this practice should be changed and that a jury should be given all the past facts before they reach their decision about the case.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Present a written argument or case to an educated non-specialist audience on the following topic:Some employers reward members of staff for their exceptional contribution to the company by giving them extra money. This practice can act as an incentive for some but may also have a negative impact on others.To what extent is this style of management effective?Are there better ways of encouraging employees to work hard?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Present a written argument or case to an educated non-specialist audience on the following topic:In the past, sporting champions used to be motivated primarily by the desire to win a match or to break world records. These days they are more likely to be motivated by prize money and the opportunity to be famous.What message does this send to young people and how does this attitude to sport affect the sports themselves?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
‘Failure is proof that the desire wasn’t strong enough’To what extent do you agree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"To be labelled a ‘Work of Art’, a painting, sculpture or other art form should display certain qualities that are unique. However, over the past century there has been a decline in the quality of prize-winning artwork and it is now possible for quite ordinary pieces of art to be labelled ‘masterpieces ’ whilst true works of art pass unnoticed.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.The only way to reduce the amount of traffic in cities today is by reducing the need for people to travel from home for work, education or shopping.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Young people in the modern world seem to have more power and influence than any previous young generation.Why is this the case?What impact does this have on the relationship between old and young people?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.Music is played in every society and culture in the world today.Some people think that music brings only benefits to individuals and societies. Others, however, think that music can have a negative influence on both.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Some say that because many people are living much longer, the age at which people retire from work should be raised considerably.To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
Many people assume that the goal of every country should be to produce more materials and goods.To what extent do you agree or disagree that constantly increasing production is an appropriate goal?
"Write about the following topic.Buying things on the Internet, such as books, air tickets and groceries, is becoming more and more popular.Do the advantages of shopping in this way outweigh the disadvantages?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some organisations believe that their employees should dress smartly. Others value quality of work above appearance.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.Psychologists have known for many years that colour can affect how people feel. For this reason, attention should be given to colour schemes when decorating places such as offices and hospitals.How true is this statement?How far does colour influence people’s health and capacity for work?"
"Write about the following topic.Information technology is changing many aspects of our lives and now dominates our home, leisure and work activities.To what extent do the benefits of information technology outweigh the disadvantages?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some universities now offer their courses on the Internet so that people can study online.Is this a positive or negative development?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Some people think that instead of preventing climate change, we need to find a way to live with it. To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.In many countries, a small number of people earn extremely high salaries. Some people believe that this is good for the country, but others think that governments should not allow salaries above a certain level.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.It is inevitable that traditional cultures will be lost as technology develops. Technology and traditional cultures are incompatible.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this view?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic.Extreme sports such as sky diving and skiing are very dangerous and should be banned.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this view?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.Most people have forgotten the meaning behind traditional or religious festivals; during festival periods, people nowadays only want to enjoy themselves.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Some people feel that entertainers such as film stars, pop musicians or sports stars are paid too much money.Do you agree or disagree?Which other types of job should be highly paid?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Some museums and art galleries charge admission fees, while others have free entry.Do you think the advantages of charging for admission outweigh the disadvantages?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Some people feel that the design of newly constructed buildings in big cities should be controlled by governments. Others believe those who finance the construction of a building should be free to design it as they see fit.Discuss both these views and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Some people think that there should be strict laws to control the amount of noise a person makes because of the disturbance it causes to people.Discuss the advantages and disadvantages.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
A country becomes more interesting and develops more quickly when its population includes a mixture of nationalities.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"It's generally believed that success in fields such as art and sport can only be achieved if a person has natural talent. However, it's sometimes claimed that any child can be taught to become a good sports person or artist.Discuss both these views and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.It is now possible for scientists and tourists to travel to remote natural environment, such as the South Pole.What are advantages and disadvantages of this development?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.People in all modern societies use drugs, but today's youth are experimenting with both legal and illegal drugs, and at an increasingly early age. Some sociologists claim that parents and other members of society often set a bad example.Discuss the causes and some effects of widespread drug use by young people in modern day society. Make any recommendations you feel are necessary to help fight youth drug abuse.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Write about the following topic.Due to the development and rapid expansion of supermarket in some countries, many small, local business are unable to compete. Some people think that the closure of local business will bring about the death of local communities.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Some people think that art is an essential subject for children at school while others think it is a waste of time.Discuss both views and give your opinionGive reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic.More and more people are relying on the private car as their major means of transportation.Describe some of the problems over-reliance on cars can cause, and suggest at least one possible solution.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Write about the following topic.Rich countries should allow jobs for skilled and knowledgeable employees who are from poor countries. Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Write about the following topic:Rich countries often give money to poorer countries, but it does not solve poverty. Therefore, developed countries should give other types of help to the poor countries rather than financial aid.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Learning about the past has no value for those of us living in the present.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Write about the following topic:Some people think that a sense of competition in children should be encouraged. Others believe that children who are taught to co-operate rather than compete become more useful adults.Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"Some people think that it is important to use leisure time for activities that improve the mind, such as reading and doing word puzzles.Other people feel that it is important to rest the mind during leisure time.Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.Write at least 250 words."
There is growing evidence that man-made activities are making global temperatures higher.What might be the man-made causes of temperatures rising? How should we deal with this problem?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Universities should accept equal numbers of male and female students in every subject.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Individuals can do nothing to improve the environment; only governments and large companies can make a difference.To what extent do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
People living in large cities have to face many problems in everyday life. What are those problems?Should the government encourage people to move to regional towns?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
More people decided to have children in their later age than in the past. Why?Do advantages of this outweigh disadvantages?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"In recent years, the family structure has changed, as well as family roles. What are the changes occurring? Do you think these changes are positive or negative?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
"Some people believe that we cannot learn anything from the past for our life today, while others believe that history is a valuable source of information to understand human's life.Discuss both views and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience."
Some people think that the most important thing about being rich is it gives a person the opportunity to help other people.Do you agree or disagree?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
"There is a moral necessity today for the richer countries of the world to help the poorer countries develop in terms of feeding the population, education and health care. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"Some people like to own the place where they live, but other people like to rent where they live. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
People today find their lives more and more dominated by their jobs. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
It must be a woman who stays at home to care for children. Men are not suited to this kind of work. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
Many people in cities today live in high-rise apartment blocks. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this type of living?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"Some people feel that fashion is like art and a significant part of society, while others feel that fashion is a waste of time and money.Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"Many people believe that studying at university is the best way to develop oneself, learn new skills and find a well-paid job. Other people believe that more is learned from getting a job straight away after school and learning whilst working.Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
The end of the world’s fossil fuel resources and the subsequent changes will be a positive development in society. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"Some people feel that with the rise of artificial intelligence, computers and robots will take over the roles of teachers. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
Having a salaried job is better than being self-employed. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
Some people feel that learning a foreign language is an essential component of a child’s education. Others feel that learning a foreign language is often a waste of time that can be better spent on learning about technology and other more vocational subjects.Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"With the vast increase in online resources today, libraries with print books are not a necessity for today’s society.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
It is the responsibility of individuals to save and provide for their own retirement. Governments have no obligation to provide this benefit.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
Many cities have areas where the only cars are taxis and buses.Is this a positive or a negative development? What are the effects of this on individuals and society?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
Many schoolchildren today take part in work experience sessions for short periods of time instead of attending school. Is this a positive or a negative development?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
The number of advertisements for charities on television and the Internet seems to be increasing. What is causing this? Is this a positive or a negative development?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"Some people believe that homework should not be given to school children. Others, however, say that homework is an important requirement for children to be able to develop appropriately. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
It is a fact that the majority of people who are sent to prison commit further crime after their release.What is causing this? What can be done to change this?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"Social media has become a real problem for some young people today, and governments should create laws that allow only people over 18 years of age to have accounts.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"With the scale of globalisation today, it would be of unquestioned benefit to have a single world currency.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"In some countries, boys and girls are educated separately after the age of about ten years old. Discuss this view and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
Everybody today should pay a small amount from their income in order to help people who are homeless and / or suffering great poverty. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
Every household should have a government-imposed limit on the amount of rubbish it can throw away. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
The fact that enormous sums are paid for pieces of art is not acceptable at a time when many people around the world live in poverty. Discuss this statement and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
Professional sportsmen and sportswomen and professional entertainers can often command enormous salaries today and this situation reflects society’s dependence on being entertained.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"Some people today believe that it is acceptable to use physical force to discipline children, but others feel it is completely unacceptable.Discuss this view and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"Tourism today creates a variety of problems, such as pollution due to flights, transport and dirty water.Do you think that governments should impose extra taxes on flights or accommodation to restrict today’s tourism industry?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
Providing a national system in a country where the unemployed receive a regular payment only encourages people not to seek work and puts an unreasonable strain on a country’s financial resources.Discuss this statement and give your opinion.Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words.
"With the increase in computer use, many people feel that schools do not need to put the emphasis that they used to on basic handwriting skills or mental mathematics skills.To what extent do you agree or disagree with this?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"There are many things that can motivate people to perform well in their work. These can include the salary, job satisfaction or the chance to help others. What do you feel is the best motivation to do well at work?Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your knowledge or experience.You should write at least 250 words."
"Public health is becoming an urgent issue nowadays. Some argue that governments should create nutrition and food choice laws to improve public health, while others believe that it is a matter of personal choice and responsibility. Discuss both views and give your opinion."
More and more people today are drinking sugar-based drinks. Why is this happening? What measures can be taken to reverse this trend?
"Nowadays many teenagers have a celebrity who they follow as a role model. Some people think this is not a good idea, because celebrities often set a bad example. Do you agree or disagree?"
Many people try to achieve a work-life balance but fail. Why is this happening? What can be done to help people overcome this problem?
In many workplaces online communication has overtaken face to face meetings. Do the advantages of this development outweigh the disadvantages?
"Even though experts believe that walking is a great way to improve one’s health, very few people walk nowadays. Why aren’t people walking? What can be done to encourage them to walk more?"
"In many countries, a lot of food is wasted. Why do people waste food? How can we reduce the amount of food waste?"
Newspapers have a significant influence on people’s ideas and opinions. Why is this happening? Is it a positive or negative situation?
Some people believe that the best way to solve environmental problems is to increase the price of fuel.Do you agree or disagree?
"Discipline is a growing problem in modern schools. Some people think that parents should discipline their own children, while others think it should be the responsibility of the government. Discuss both views and give your opinion."
"These days, many young people are not spending their weekends and holidays doing outdoor activities such as hiking or mountaineering. Why is that happening? How can they be encouraged to spend more time in the natural environment?"
"Some people think that hosting an international sporting event is beneficial for a country, while others disagree. Do the advantages of hosting a major sporting event outweigh its disadvantages?"
"People should follow the local customs and traditions, when they come to live in a new country. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
"Many people argue that museums and art galleries should present the nation’s art, as opposed to artworks from other countries. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
Today’s young generation is facing many problems at school and at home. What are the problems? What can parents do to help their teenage children?
"Crime rates are likely to decline due to the advancements in technology, which will help prevent and solve crimes in an easier way. Do you agree or disagree?"
Some people say that all popular TV entertainment programmes should aim to educate viewers about important social issues. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
"In many countries, young people are finding it harder and harder to find permanent jobs. Why is this happening? What can be done to improve the situation?"
Many countries are experiencing population growth and need to build more homes. Some say that new homes should be constructed in existing cities while others argue that new towns should be built to accommodate the growing population. What are the advantages and disadvantages of these points of view?
"Some think that young people should be free to choose any career they like, while others say that they should think more realistically about their future. Discuss both views and give your own opinion."
"In the modern world, it is possible to shop, work and communicate with people via the Internet and live without any face-to-face contact with others. Is it a positive or negative development?"
"Some people believe that excessive use of modern technologies, such as computers and smartphones, is negatively affecting the reading and writing skills of our young people. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
It is believed that people who read for pleasure develop their imagination more and acquire better language skills compared to people who prefer watching television. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"Scientists believe that the world is in danger due to environmental changes. Some people say that personal lifestyle changes should be made to reduce the damage to environment, while others think that the government should do something to help. Discuss both views and give your own opinion."
Today children are spending much more time watching TV compared to the past. Why do you think this happens? Is this a positive or a negative change?
"High-rise vs. low-rise buildings, which solution is better for a growing population?"
« Previous
"Some people think that it is fine for professional athletes to misbehave on or off the field, as long as they are playing well (opinion)"
"Some people believe that women should be treated as equal to men when applying for a job with the police or the military, while others disagree (opinion)"
"In many countries young people start living on their own after high school, is this a positive or negative development?"
"In the past people wore their traditional clothes, but these days most people wear similar clothes, is this a positive or negative development?"
Many people support animal testing while others believe it isn’t appropriate (discuss)
Some think that children should leave their family home as soon as possible while others believe they should stay for as long as they like (discuss)
"When new towns are planned, it is important to build more public parks or sports facilities than shopping centers (agree/disagree)"
Some people think that public health in a country can be improved by government making laws regarding nutritious food (agree/disagree).
"Nowadays many people choose ready-made food and refuse to cook at home, why and what are the advantages/disadvantages?"
"Nowadays that many women have full time jobs, it is logical to share the housework evenly between men and women (agree/disagree)"
"Some believe the government should take care of retirees, while others think everyone should save for their own retirement (opinion)"
Some people say that arts subjects are as essential as academic ones and should be part of school syllabus (agree/disagree)
"Nowadays people waste a lot of food, why is this happening and how to reduce waste?"
"Some parents encourage young people to leave home while others think they should stay with the family, discuss and give your opinion"
"What are the difficulties of learning a foreign language, and how to overcome them?"
Should employers pay more attention to personal qualities rather than qualifications?
"Some people use the Internet to search for solutions to their medical problems, is this a positive or negative development?"
"Nowadays more and more people want to live by themselves, why is this happening?"
"The education system is the only critical factor in the development of a country, agree/disagree (from Target Band "
"Obesity is becoming common among children, give reasons and solutions (from Target Band "
"Education in financial management should be a mandatory component of the school program, agree/disagree (from Target Band "
Dieting can change a person’s life for better or worse (from Target Band 
Changing drivers age limits is the best way to reduce traffic accidents (from Target Band 
"IELTS Essay, topic: Some believe that modern technology is increasing the gap between the rich and poor, while others disagree (discuss)"
Childcare training courses should be mandatory for all parents (agree/disagree)
Many people believe that reducing speed limits is the best option for road safety improvement (agree/disagree)
Nowadays families move to different countries for work and some think it has a negative effect on children (agree/disagree)
"Some people believe that preserving natural environment is crucial, but make no effort to do so (reasons and solutions)"
People should not work beyond the retirement age (agree/disagree)
"The proportion of older people is increasing, what problems will this cause and what solutions can be suggested?"
Senior managers should have higher salaries than other employees (agree/disagree)
Advertising affects what people think is important and has a negative effect on their lives (agree/disagree)
Many believe that international tourism is bad for their country (reasons and solutions)
Some people claim that it is acceptable to use animals in medical research (discuss)
should children grow up in the city or countryside (advantages/disadvantages)?
should unpaid community work be mandatory in high school (agree/disagree)?
Why do criminals commit another offence after being punished?
"Schools should select students by their academic abilities, agree or disagree?"
"Children these days are suffering from obesity, why and how can it be solved?"
"Children should be engaged in paid work, agree or disagree?"
Should people spend a lot on weddings and birthday parties?
Some people think that students who don’t take a break in studies between the high school and the university are at disadvantage compared to students who travel and work after high school before further continuing their education. Do you agree or disagree?
"We are becoming increasingly dependent on computers. They are used in business, crime detection and even to fly planes. What things will they be used for in future? Is this dependence on computers a good thing or should we be more suspicious of their benefits?"
"In many countries children are engaged in some kind of paid work. Some people regard this as completely wrong, while others consider it a valuable work experience, which is important for learning and taking responsibility. What is your opinion?"
Some say that the Internet is making the world smaller by bringing people together. To what extent do to you agree that the Internet is making it easier for people to communicate with one another?
News editors decide what to broadcast on television and what to print in a newspaper. What factors do you think influence their decisions? Do we become used to bad news? Would it be better if more good news was reported?
"Nowadays environmental problems are too big to be managed by individual persons or individual countries. In other words, it is an international problem. To what extent do you agree or disagree?"
Without capital punishment (the death penalty) our lives are less secure and crimes of violence increase. Capital punishment is essential to control violence in society. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Should the same laws which prohibit the sale and consumption of heroin be applied to tobacco? Discuss.
Should wealthy nations be required to share their wealth with poorer nations by providing them with things such as food and education? Or is this the responsibility of the governments of poorer nations to look after their citizens?
"Advertising is all around us, it is an unavoidable part of everyone’s life. Some people say that advertising is a positive part of our lives while others say it is a negative one. Discuss both views and include your own opinion. Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience. You should write at least 250 words."
"We are becoming increasingly dependent on computers. They are used in business, hospitals, crime detection and even to fly planes. What things will they be used for in the future? Is this dependence on computers a good thing or should we be more suspicious of their benefits?"
"The Internet when used as a source of information, has more drawbacks than advantages. To what extent do you agree with this statement?"
Some businesses prohibit smoking in any of their offices. Some governments have banned smoking in all public places. Do you agree or disagree that this is the right course of action? Give reasons for your opinion.
"In some countries children have very strict rules of behavior, in other countries they are allowed to do almost anything they like. To what extent should children have to follow rules?"
"With all the problems in the world today, spending money on space exploration is a complete waste. The money could be better spent on other causes."
Some people say that the Internet is making the world smaller by bringing people together. To what extent do you agree that the internet is making it easier for people to communicate with one another?
Popular events like the football world cup and other international sporting occasions are essential in easing international tensions and releasing patriotic emotions in a safe way. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?
Students from rural areas often find it difficult to access university education. Some people think that it should become easier for them to study at universities. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?
Full time university students spend most of the time studying. They should be doing other activities too. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
"Some people prefer to spend their lives doing the same things and avoiding changes. Others, however think that change is always a good thing. Discuss both sides and give your own opinion."
Every year an increasing number of students choose to go to another country for their higher education. Do you think the benefits of this development outweigh the problems associated with it?
Financial education should be a mandatory component of the school program. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
The best way to reduce the number of traffic accidents is to raise age limit for the younger drivers and to lower age limit for the aged ones. Do you agree?
Dieting can change a person’s life for the better or ruins one’s health completely. What’s your opinion?
"Even though globalization affects the world’s economy in a very positive way, its negative side should not be forgotten. Discuss."
"In many countries children are engaged in some kind of paid work. Some people regard this as completely wrong, while others consider it to be a valuable work experience, which is important for learning and taking responsibility. What is your opinion on this?"
"You can get up-to-date news from the radio, TV and the Internet. Which kind of media do you think is the best to get the news?"
"Millions of people every year move to English- speaking countries such as Australia, Britain or America, in order to study at school, college or university. Why do so many people want to study in English? Why is English such an important international language?"
The best way to reduce the number of traffic accidents is to raise the age limit for younger drivers and to lower the age limit for aged drivers. Do you agree ?
Dieting can change a person’s life for the better or ruins one’s health completely. What is your opinion?
"People attend college or university for many different reasons (for example, new experiences, career preparation, or to increase knowledge)."
“Some people say that the education system is the only critical factor to development of a country. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?”
Learning about the past has no value for those of us living in the present. Do you agree or disagree? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
"Even though Globalization affects the world’s economics in a very positive way, its negative sides should not be forgotten. Discuss."
"Some people think that it is important to use leisure time for activities that develop the mind, such as reading and doing crossword puzzles. Others feel that it is important to give one’s mind a rest in leisure time. Discuss."
Some people say education is the only critical factor to the development of a country. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
"Most high level positions in companies are filled by men, even though the workforce in many developed countries consists of 50 percent female workers. Companies should be required to allocate a certain percentage of management positions to women. Discuss, what is your opinion?"
"The world is experiencing a dramatic increase in population, which is causing problems not only for poor, undeveloped countries, but also for industrialized and developed nations. Describe some of the problems that overpopulation causes, and suggest at least one possible solution."
There is no longer enough natural resources to sustain current levels of economic growth. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Some people believe that having a pet such as a cat or a dog helps old people to live a more enjoyable life and to stay healthier. How do you think old people benefit from having a pet? Do you think there are any problems related to old people who have pets?
Boys are most influenced by their fathers and girls are most influenced by their mothers. Do you agree or disagree? Use specific reasons to support your opinion.
Without capital punishment our lives are less secure and crimes or violence increase. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?
Some people think that they can learn better by themselves than with a teacher. Others think that it is always better to have a teacher. Which do you prefer? Use specific reasons to develop your essay.
Nowadays people like to change their day by day activities according to the latest trends and also they are following popular things . This essay will explain the reason why the people are spending more time
Universities should allocate the same amount of money to their sport activities as they allocate to their libraries. Do you agree or disagree?
Modern medicine helps to live a longer life. Do you agree?
